Overview
--------

Hadoop Distributed File System (HDFS™) is the primary storage system
used by Hadoop applications. HDFS creates multiple replicas of data 
blocks and distributes them on compute nodes throughout a cluster to 
enable reliable, extremely rapid computations. 

Usage
-----

This charm supports the namenode, secondarynamenode and datanode
hdfs roles:

    juju deploy --repository . local:hadoop-hdfs hdfs-namenode
    juju deploy --repository . local:hadoop-hdfs hdfs-secondarynamenode
    juju deploy --repository . local:hadoop-hdfs hdfs-datacluster-01
    juju add-unit -n 2 hdfs-datacluster-01
    juju add-relation hdfs-namenode:namenode hdfs-datacluster-01:datanode
    juju add-relation hdfs-namenode:namenode hdfs-secondarynamenode:secondarynamenode

Note that adding and removing the relation between namenode and datanode
is destructive!  The role of the service is determined at the point that
the relation is added (it must be qualified) and CANNOT be changed later!

A single hdfs-master can support multiple slave service deployments:

    juju deploy --repository . local:hadoop-hdfs hdfs-datacluster-02
    juju add-unit -n 2 hdfs-datacluster-02
    juju add-relation hdfs-namenode:namenode hdfs-datacluster-02:datanode

This could potentially be used to perform charm upgrades on datanodes in 
sets:

    juju upgrade-charm --repository . hdfs-datacluster-01
    (go and make some tea whilst monitoring juju debug-log)
    juju upgrade-charm --repository . hdfs-datacluster-02

Could be helpful to avoid outages (to be proven).

Use with HBase
--------------

This charm also supports deployment of HBase; HBase requires that append mode
is enabled in DFS - this can be set by providing a config.yaml file:

    hdfs-namenode:
        hbase: true
    hdfs-datacluster-01:
        hbase: true
    hdfs-datacluster-02:
        hbase: true

Its really important to ensure that both the master and the slave services have
the same configuration in this deployment scenario.

You can then associate a hdfs service deployment with a hbase service deployment:

    juju add-relation hdfs-namenode:namenode hbase-master:namenode
    juju add-relation hdfs-namenode:namenode hbase-regioncluster-01:namenode
    juju add-relation hdfs-namenode:namenode hbase-datacluster-01:namenode
    juju add-relation hdfs-namenode:namenode hbase-datacluster-02:namenode

See the hbase charm for more details on deploying HBase.
